Feat add attr decorator (#103)
github/catalyst: docs/_guide/attrs.md

---
chapter: 7
subtitle: Using attributes as configuration
---

Components may sometimes manage state, or configuration. We encourage the use of DOM as state, rather than maintaining a separate state. One way to maintain state in the DOM is via [Attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Howto/Use_data_attributes).

> As Catalyst elements are really just Web Components, they have the `hasAttribute`, `getAttribute`, `setAttribute`, `toggleAttribute`, and `removeAttribute` set of methods available, as well as [`dataset`](https://developer.mozilla.org/pl/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/dataset), but these can be a little tedious to use; requiring null checking code with each call.

Reviewer: Please, change the language of the link to `developer.mozilla.org` from `pl` to `en-US`

Author: Thanks! Nice catch!

```suggestion
As Catalyst elements are really just Web Components, they have the `hasAttribute`, `getAttribute`, `setAttribute`, `toggleAttribute`, and `removeAttribute` set of methods available, as well as [`dataset`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLOrForeignElement/dataset), but these can be a little tedious to use; requiring null checking code with each call.
```

> As Catalyst elements are really just Web Components, they have the `hasAttribute`, `getAttribute`, `setAttribute`, `toggleAttribute`, and `removeAttribute` set of methods available, as well as [`dataset`](https://developer.mozilla.org/pl/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/dataset), but these can be a little tedious to use; requiring null checking code with each call.

Author: ```suggestion
As Catalyst elements are really just Web Components, they have the `hasAttribute`, `getAttribute`, `setAttribute`, `toggleAttribute`, and `removeAttribute` set of methods available, as well as [`dataset`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLElement/dataset), but these can be a little tedious to use; requiring null checking code with each call.
```

      />
    </svg>
  </span>
  <div class="p-3">

Remember! The values defined in the class field are the _default_. They won't be set if the element is created and its attribute set to a custom value!

  </div>
</div>

The following example illustrates this behavior:

```js
import { controller, attr } from "@github/catalyst"
@controller
class HelloWorldElement extends HTMLElement {
  @attr name = 'World'
  connectedCallback() {
    this.textContent = `Hello ${name}`
  }
}
```

```html
<hello-world></hello-world>
// This will render `Hello World`

<hello-world data-name="Catalyst"></hello-world>
// This will render `Hello Catalyst`

<hello-world data-name=""></hello-world>
// This will render `Hello `
```

### What about without Decorators?

> If you're using decorators, then you won't be able to use the `@attr` decorator, but there is still a way to achieve the same result. Under the hood `@attr` simply tags a field, but `initializeAttrs` does all of the logic.

Reviewer: Should this sentence start with "If you're **not** using decorators, then ..."
Perhaps I'm not getting the meaning

Author: Another great catch :smile: 

```suggestion
If you're not using decorators, then you won't be able to use the `@attr` decorator, but there is still a way to achieve the same result. Under the hood `@attr` simply tags a field, but `initializeAttrs` does all of the logic.
```
